We've introduced precision and recall.
Now let's turn to the remaining issues in
the evaluation of text classification.
A commonly used data set for text
classification is the Reuters dataset.
It's got 21,000 documents.
They're a standard training and
test splits.
The set has 118 categories.
And this is a class of
multivalue classification,
because an article can be
in more than on category.
So that means we're going to be
learning 118 separate classifiers,
each one making a binary distinction.
And the average document has
about just over 1 class.
And here's some common categories
with some number of training and
test documents.
So there's 433 training
documents about grain.
And 149 test documents about grain.
And we have classes like wheat,
and corn, and interest and so on.
Here's a sample of Reuters' document.
You can see it's about livestock, and
about hogs, so it has two topics.
Here's the text.
So our task is, given this text,
to classify this document as
about livestock and about hogs.
The confusion matrix is very important for
multiclass classification.
The confusion matrix tells us, for
any pair of classes, c1 and c2,
how many documents from c1 were
incorrectly assigned to c2?
Here's a little example.
We have some documents about poultry or
wheat or coffee.
And here's their true classes, numbers
of documents in these true classes.
And here's what are classifier assigned.
So, c sub 3 2, this 90,
is documents that were about wheat,
but our classifier thought
they were about poultry.
So this is a classifier
that just loves chickens.
Each cell of the classifier tells us
how many documents of each class
were classified in the other class.
And that means that the diagonals
of this confusion matrix give us
the correct classifications.
Here, 95 documents that we said were
about the UK are in fact about the UK.
And no documents that we said were
about wheat are actually about wheat.
We can use the confusion matrix to compute
the same measures we've talked about,
precision and recall.
Let's start with recall.
Recall the fraction of documents in
class i that are classified correctly.
How many of these class
i documents did we find?
So, true positives,
Cii divided by the sum of the entire row.
Let's go back and look at our table.
Here's an entire row of documents
that are actually about wheat.
And let's say our true
positives here are 0.
So a very,
very bad classifier about wheat.
We divide 0 by the sum
of all these numbers.
10 plus 90 plus 1 is
going to give us our recall.
For precision we're going to ask,
of the documents that we returned, so
that's an entire column,
of that column, and
how many are the documents
that we were correct about?
Of the documents that we
said were about wheat,
how many of them were truly about wheat?
So, the documents about wheat divided by
the sum of all these documents
that we said were about wheat.
And then accuracy is just a fraction
of documents classified correctly.
So, it's the sum of these diagonal entries
divided by the sum of all of the entries
in the confusion matrix.
Now, since we have more than one class,
we're going to need a way to combine
the values, the precision recall values
we get from each class into one measure.
because it's often useful
to have a single measure.
And there's two standard ways to do this.
In macro-averaging, we compute the
performance, the precision or recall or
f score for each class, and then we
average them to get an average value.
So if we have 113 classes,
we're going to compute 113 precisions.
And we're going to average them all
to get a macro-averaging precision.
In micro-averaging, we instead collect
all the decisions for all the classes in
the one single contingency table and
then we evaluate our precision on that.
Let's look at an example.
Here we have two classes,
class 1 and class 2.
And here's all the things that are true
yeses and true nos for class 1.
And here's things that are really
in class 2 and really not.
And here's what our classifier returns.
So our macroaveraged precision,
we're going to compute the precision
separately for the two classes.
So for class 1, 10 over 10 + 10.
So that's 0.5.
For class 2, 90 over 90 + 10, or 0.9.
So our macroaverage precision is the
average of 0.5 and 0.9, and we get 0.7.
For microaveraging on the other hand,
we're going to take the two
contingency tables and
just add them all together to get
a single microaverage contingency table.
And now we're going to compute
precision directly from that.
So we'll get 100 over,
100 + 20, or 0.83.
So, you can see that the microaveraged
score is dominated by the score in
the common class.
Class 2 is much more common than class 1.
These numbers are much bigger.
In micro-averaging,
that class will dominate these summed
numbers in this summed contingency table.
In macro-averaging, each class
is going to participate equally.
For text classification evaluation we
need more than just precision or recall.
As in many machine learning
based algorithms for
natural language processing,
we'll need a training set, a test set for
measuring performance, and something
called a development test set, or dev set.
And the training set will
compute our parameters.
And what we'll do with a dev
set is test our performance
while we're developing our system.
And so, whether we're looking
at precision recall F1, or
whether we're looking at accuracy, we'll
look at our scores in the development test
to find bugs in our algorithm and
develop new features.
And once we're done
developing the algorithm,
we can then test on
a clean unseen test set.
And the reason why it's important
to have this clean unseen test set,
is that otherwise, if we report
numbers on our development test
set that we've been using all along,
we're going to end up overfitting.
We're going to report much higher
accuracies probably than are reasonable
because we've tuned our algorithm
to this development test set.
Clean unseen test set gives us a more
conservative estimate of performance.
Now we can get sampling errors
due to small data sets.
Maybe out test set is small, or
our training set's unrepresentative.
So it's common, we talked about
earlier about cross-validation.
So we're going to take multiple splits
of our data and cross-validate.
For example, let's say we set
aside some portion of our data for
a dev set, we take the rest of it,
and we'll train on this training set.
And then look at our
performance on the dev set.
And then we'll take a different split,
train on this part of the training set,
and report on the dev set.
Take this part of the training set, and
get our performance in the dev set.
Then we're going to pool our
results from each split and
then compute a total pooled
dev set performance.
This lets us avoid having very small test
sets or very unrepresentative test sets.
A lot of the data gets used for
both training and dev in different splits.
Still, at the end, we need to
have our clean unseen test set so
that we don't overfit to these dev sets.
We've now given you a number of ways
to evaluate text classification.
We've introduced precision or recall and
f score, and talked about what to do in
the multi-class problem where
we have more than two classes.
We'll see the use of these ideas and
also of micro-averaging and
macro-averaging through out
natural language processing.